---
layout: post
title: Working with Jekyll
---

Thoughts of what I learned from working with Jekyll and Github Pages while building this site.

<div class="toc" markdown="1">
<!-- Set class to title-->
  <h3>Table of Contents</h3>
  {:.toc-title}
  * TOC
  {:toc}
</div>

## Introduction 
---

So for a while now I wanted to build a website, but I din't wanted to settle with the old Wordpress (WP) solution.
I understand that WP dominates the internet but I just wanted to try something different.

> __Note:__ I know there might be other solutions besides WP that are viable alternatives, but I am slightly more familiar with WP than any other solutions to make a value judgement. 

I had a few things I wanted:

* Simple to deploy and host
* It should be customizable and I can make it look however I wanted
* Cheap or free to host

While those are true for WP (or other frameworks) I wanted to experiment with Jekyll since it is __FREE__ to host your website in Github and a lot of open source projects use it.

The are no requirements to [Github pages](https://pages.github.com/) you could generate your own HTML and point your page to that branch. However [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/) has native support and gives you a lot of flexibility of how to organize your page. Also, you can just add blog posts/entries in markdown that gets transformed into HTML making it easy to write and not worry about anything else.

To use Github Pages there are a couple of requirements: 

* Know how git/github works
* Have a basic understanding of how HTML, CSS and YAML files are structured/work.
* Knowing Markdown is a huge plus (In my opininion everyone should learn [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/), but that's just me).

## Setup

So I don't wanna repeat the docs of this. There are several guides and [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/) has a large comunity plus documentation that can be explored to achieve almost anything. What I will focus on is the extra stuff that is not documented or the things I found interesting. 


